---
layout: post
title: Replace your useless, high-volume RSS feeds with longer, more intelligent, and more developed articles
---

*(note: this is adapted from a forum post I wrote and was written at 5 am and, as such, is kind of a draft)*

## Why

Look. You're probably not gonna believe me when I say this, but all the high-velocity sites you read? They're killing you.

Well, okay, not literally. Engadget's latest updates about another awful Chinese Android tablet are not directly giving you cancer. But the time you take reading - or, more likely, marking as read - these posts is *wasting your time*. It's taking away time and energy from your day and distracting you.

I know what you're thinking: "that's the point! These sites give me something to check during the day when I'm bored, and they keep me informed!" But we both know that's not true. How much are you learning from recycled memes and image macros? How much intellectual nutrition are you getting from witty Reddit comments?

See, the time you spend reading through the newest Joystiq headlines - "Activision Announces That There Will Someday Be Another Call of Duty Game!" - isn't time spent learning, it's time wasted. Anything important in gaming, you'll find out elsewhere, trust me. And really, do you *need* to read Techcrunch? Is it important for you to know about every round of VC funding a startup gets? Probably not. And maybe you're not an RSS junkie, but instead every link on the Hacker News frontpage right now is greyed out, or Reddit's frontpage is full of purple. Whatever your ADD "news" vice is, I'm here to help.

It's time to take back your brain from the clutches of cat pictures and product announcements and replace it with *real knowledge and thought*.

It's time to start reading real articles again. And I'm gonna tell you how.

## When

How often have you seen an article and thought, "eh, too long, I'll come back to it" and never did? Be honest. Maybe it languished, nested five folders deep in your bookmarks. Maybe you starred it in Google Reader, knowing full well that you haven't looked at your now-overflowing starred items list in weeks or months, and that you now have a backlog that'd take you as long to work through as it took to create.

The thing is, once you drop this information overload from your life, you're gonna have a *ton* of free time.

If you're going through your RSS feeds or checking up on Reddit or Hacker News, you're probably doing it to kill time. Are you going to those sites because you're taking a break from work? That's fine, sure. Just a couple minutes every hour never hurt anyone.

But are you doing it a *lot*? That's not so good. I'm not chiding you for shirking responsibilities - hell, I do that all the time. The thing is, though, if you're spending 15 minutes or longer reading web forums, social bookmarking sites, or RSS feeds, that's time you could be using a *lot* more effectively, even without doing "work". That's time you could be spending reading real articles, not xSlayerRocksx's opinions on Ron Paul's newest soundbite.

So when you find yourself spinning your wheels, **stop** and start doing something intellectually productive. Now, besides reading long-form articles, you could watch that TED Talk you've had bookmarked for a week, or check out some tutorials in a web framework you've been wanting to learn, or *anything* besides nothing. I do really think that reading is the most rewarding thing you can do during your "breaks", though.

## What & Where

Long ago, these articles would have been found in newspapers or magazines. You'd get your newspaper and spend an hour in the morning and an hour after work reading through the pages, getting unbiased facts about everything that happened.  But nowadays, the average person could give a shit about the objective facts of a car bombing in the Middle East - there's nothing interesting there for them. 

At the same time, magazines, which once could be relied on for more insightful analysis and opinion in whatever specialization they had, have slowly been sapped of their content. Your average high schooler could write a longer essay than the usual front-page article of *Wired*, which now is pretty much just a home of neat but ultimately useless infographics. Even the magazines that have great content now upload most of it online, where it gets bookmarked and unread by you.

So the question now is, of course, where can you find articles to read?

### Long-form Aggregator Blogs

While I may have railed against RSS earlier, I've found the easiest way to follow these is to subscribe to them and to pick and choose which ones I want to read. They're relatively low-volume, so don't worry about information overload.

* *[Longform.org][longform]* and *[Longreads][longreads]*  - I grouped these two together because they're so similar. They both post both new and classic non-fiction. Longreads also posts the occasional short story, which is usually great. There's usually some overlap between the two, but it doesn't hurt to subscribe to both.
* *[Bookforum's Omnivore][omnivore]* - This is a new blog to me, and both fascinating and intimidating. Every day, it posts three new "themes", each with ten to twenty articles within, from Cracked.com to scientific papers. Amazingly dense, but also not too difficult to pick-and-choose from if you don't have the time to commit to a ton of reading.

### Subreddits

These are great for checking when you're looking for something to read at the moment, especially if you like follow-up discussion.

* *[r/Foodforthought](http://www.reddit.com/r/Foodforthought)* - A subreddit "dedicated to articles and essays that stimulate intellectual discourse". Focused more on ideas than on length, but has some of the best conversation on Reddit.
* *[r/TrueReddit](http://www.reddit.com/r/TrueReddit/)* - Don't let the pretentious name deceive you - this is one of the best sources for good articles on the web.

### Kindle Singles

This is a new, and somewhat specific category, but Amazon's recently begun selling nonfiction articles and short stories for $0.99-$2.99 a pop. These seem to range between 15 and 100 pages. You're limited to reading these on Kindle devices and apps, but in some cases the DRM is worth it - I particularly enjoyed [Blood on the Tracks](http://www.amazon.com/Blood-Tracks-Kindle-Single-ebook/dp/B0056B0P8U), a bargain at $0.99.

## How

With all those new sources for articles, you may be wondering how to keep track of it all. While I encourage you to read whenever you see the articles, rather than putting off, that obviously isn't always possible. The following software - two web apps, and one browser feature - is a step above just keeping browser bookmarks. It'll allow you to save articles, sync them across devices, and read them more clearly than on their original web pages.

### Instapaper

[Instapaper](http://instapaper.com) is a kick-ass free service that's great for keeping long articles. On the surface, it may just seem like another cloud bookmarking service, but it's tailored for storing and reading articles. It has an excellent text-only view and has some basic social features, allowing you to share your "starred" articles and subscribe to other peoples'.

But the real reason it's great are the different ways besides the web app you can use to read articles. It has an excellent iOS app, and, in my opinion most importantly, not only can you export your articles into Kindle periodical or ePub format, you can even wirelessly send your articles (as a periodical) to your Kindle for free. It's like making your own Kindle magazine. Besides these features, there's also a lot of third-party mobile apps for various platforms (I would assume Android and WP7 are represented at the least).

While the "Read Later" bookmarklet is good for both desktop and mobile browsers, a lot of RSS readers and mobile apps also have the ability to "Save to Instapaper". You can see a list [here](http://www.instapaper.com/extras) after logging in. There's also various browser extensions if you'd prefer a toolbar button to a bookmarklet.

### Readability

[Readability](http://www.readability.com/) is similar to Instapaper, but with a unique twist: you pay a monthly fee (minimum $5), but around 70% of that is paid to the original authors and publishers of what you read. It's essentially Instapaper combined with Flattr.

Besides that idea, though, it's also a much more polished service than Instapaper. It has an amazing mobile web app with offline syncing, near-identical Kindle features, and a beautiful readable view (see an example [here](http://daringfireball.net/2011/09/metro)). If you can afford it, I would recommend it - I made the switch from Instapaper and don't regret it.

### Safari & Reading List

A new feature in the newest version of the Safari web browser for OSX, Reading List allows you to save articles and, in the upcoming iOS 5, sync them between your Mac and iOS devices. Safari also has its own readable view, Reader, which is nice, and even can condense multi-page articles into one.

## Conclusion

With all that said, I hope that you are ready to begin reading and learning more than ever. Remember: whenever you feel the urge to visit Reddit, check the newest posts on Engadget, or look at the latest NeoGAF posts: stop, and instead read something more enriching. Because if you're not doing something with your time, you're just spending time dying.

[longform]: http://longform.org/
[longreads]: http://longreads.com/
[omnivore]: http://www.bookforum.com/blog/